I'm Matthew Clarke.
I'm a conservation scientist
at the National Museum of Asian Art,
a part of the Smithsonian Institution.
So, there are over 2,000 jades
in the National Museum of Asian Art.
Jade is a hard stone that can hold a polish.
It is not a specific mineral group,
but it can be a term that's used
to cover many different types.
The material that's making up the jade can be important
for both understanding its sourcing
as well as how it has been handled in the past
as well as how to care for the future.
If we can do noninvasive imaging,
we can look often at the entirety of the object
as well as these are objects that are in our care,
and so if we can find an answer without taking a sample,
that's our first preference.
Different materials that we use for jades,
nephrite is the most common that we see in China.
Jadeite, which is probably the most thought-of jade
currently is not found in China.
Its closest location is in Southeast Asia,
and our collection is mostly represented by nephrite objects
with a very small number of other materials.
For jades, the best technique we have used
to sort through a large number of objects
has been shortwave infrared reflectance spectroscopy
from a material that we can see its reflectance spectrum,
and then we can compare that
to other known reference materials,
and using that,
we can easily sort out many of the materials.
The first two samples are nephrite,
and you can see they can vary a lot in color
just from these two examples.
The next two are two serpentine stones.
The next two are jadeite dioxide and a talc,
so this is the softest one.
We can see scratches on it,
so that would be an immediate indication of
it's a different material,
so here, each line, as the camera's going through,
it's collecting a spectrum from this.
After it's done collecting,
we can pull up the data and investigate
and look at the different areas to see and compare.
Now we see the image.
It's got false colors
based off of the bands that are set here.
I can drag the spot around to look at
what's the spectrum from that spot?
So the stone here
and the spectrum that we see is from nephrite,
and that's the most common stone that we have
for our Chinese jades.
The stone is on the far left,
and this smaller rectangular stone are both nephrite,
but they have somewhat different intensities of signals
their spectral features are the same.
We can see the peaks at 1,400, 2,300,
and 2,400 nanometers
are very distinctive for nephrite,
and we can compare that
if we look over to the jadeite sample,
this peak is actually here has shifted over to about 1,420.
We have some different peaks.
You can immediately see,
if I can bring up a comparison spectrum,
they're very different as we immediately think
there's a different mineral phase that's occurring,
and so that would lead to other investigations
to confirm which stone this is.
(upbeat music)